# CharacterCreator
  Drag-and-drop programming languages, also known as block-based programming languages, are becoming increasingly popular and sophisticated. Many programming environments use a block-based approach, such as Scratch and Alice. The rising prevalence of block-based programming languages is associated with the movement to teach programming to young learners. Since existing CAD tools require sophisticated programming, a drag-and-drop programming language, CharacterCreator, was developed to create 3D models. CharacterCreator was created using JavaScript, Blockly Developer Tools, and the Atom text editor. Users drag programming blocks into the workspace to design their 3D model and generate OpenSCAD code. The code is put into OpenSCAD and rendered. There are many customized pre-made blocks that create objects at a much higher level of abstraction than OpenSCAD. CharacterCreator makes it easier for users by creating single blocks that consist of  multiple blocks allowing the user to create objects more easily. Also, a set of blocks was created for a special figures category. These blocks include a nose, beard, antler, penguin head, etc. These were created so the user could create sophisticated and creative objects using few blocks. Multiple different shapes were created, and the number of blocks used vs. the number of lines of code generated were compared. A t-test was performed comparing the number of blocks to the number of lines of code generated. The difference was statistically significant.  CharacterCreator can be useful for beginning programmers. Not only is it easy to use, but it is also faster to code and develop 3D models with this software.
